so you've bought yourself a new computer
and suddenly there's no place for your
old one in your home
you can always sell it of course but
there are much more interesting ways to
use your old laptop or desktop pc
turn it into a home server instead of
keeping all your files on your new
computer's hard drive
you can set up a home group and connect
all your devices in a single network
then make your old computer's drive
shared with the whole network
and everyone in your house will be able
to view and use
files stored on it as well as share
their own this comes in especially handy
when someone in your family has a device
with low space
this way they can always keep new files
in the shared storage
make a surveillance camera out of it if
you're worried about your security
or just want to know what happens inside
your home when you're away
repurpose your old laptop with
surveillance software
it's free for local use so you can use
it for example
as a baby monitor or an outside camera
to see who's calling on you
it might look weird though if you just
hang your laptop outside the door
so you may want to re-wire it a little
bit and extract
the camera first still you can pay a
reasonable subscription fee to be
alerted
if something unexpected happens at home
while you're away
build a media center with the help of
some free software you can use your old
computer to stream videos or tv
listen to music download movies and
music tracks
and much more just install a few
lightweight applications
connect your old pc or laptop to your
home network and use it from
any other device in your home hang it on
the wall
this requires a bit of technical skills
but there are lots of tutorials online
so you'll be fine or not
you don't need a new tv to watch videos
online if you have an old monitor
mount it on the wall of your kitchen for
example to always have access to your
favorite shows
or your favorite youtube channels or
just listen to music over it
this works really well with a media
center trick i told you about earlier
make a digital photo frame digital
frames might cost a pretty penny
so it might be quite satisfying to diy
it
you'll need to take apart your device
but hey you don't need it anyway
put the screen into a frame of your
choice hide the inners of the laptop
behind it
and run the digital frame software on it
available online
rig a retro gaming station your old
computer may be slow
but it's surely still good for playing
old games
no complex manipulations included just
install
a fresh operating system get a couple of
game pads for yourself and your friends
or family
buy some old school games and enjoy
transform your laptop into a tablet
if you're willing to get elbows deep in
the electronic guts of your old laptop
you can get yourself a powerful diy
tablet
you'll have to make quite a lot of
adjustments including
replacing the default screen with a
touch screen but the result is worth the
effort
search for tutorials online choose the
one you like the most
get some spare parts and get down to
work
make a remote network server an old
computer can be a good place to share
your files with other people online
you can either set up a website and use
your pc as a server
or create an ftp server it will look
very simple
but still serve its purpose of sharing
stuff
using such a structure is more secure
than sending files via messengers
and it might be even more convenient
since you always have access to it
experiment with a different os although
convenient
windows or ios consume a lot of
computing power
so you can try out a new operating
system to see if it works better for you
linux for example is a great way to turn
your old machine
into a fast booting network device you
can once again use for work or leisure
there's also the emerging chrome os to
try
i wouldn't advise experimenting with
your main computer but your old one
is well suited for such tasks since you
don't need it that much anyway
get yourself a second monitor when a
laptop or pc
breaks its monitor is usually still
functional
so you can use it for work or to play
games as a support
in case of a desktop pc it's extremely
simple
just rig the old monitor to the new
system with laptops
it's more complex you'll need to unscrew
the lid
and get it working but it's easier than
it sounds
you can also attach diy computing
hardware to it
such as raspberry pi and get a brand new
handmade device
build a five dollar projector it'll be a
short range one but still
looking cool you'll need a working
laptop with a screen brightness set to
max
a cardboard box to put it into a fresnel
lens
you can get one for a couple of bucks
online and a roll of duct tape
in short cut a piece out from a side of
the box
put the lens inside it with the smooth
part looking out
and tape it to the box since the lens
will make the projected image
flip both horizontally and vertically
you'll need to turn your laptop
upside down just cut out the opposite
side of the box
then mount the laptop with its keyboard
lying on the top of the box
set up a makeshift router in case your
router
stops working for some reason you can
have an emergency
wi-fi hotspot you'll need to connect all
your devices into a single home network
and in the old laptop settings select it
as a hotspot
don't forget to hook it up to the wan
cable though or it won't work
play dvds or blu-ray discs i know
they're streaming of course
but those of you who like collecting
physical copies of your favorite movies
may want to use an old laptop or pc
as a spare dvd or blu-ray player most
laptops have a cd drive that's capable
of playing those
so all you need to do is buy a good
acoustic system
because the sound on laptops usually is
pretty crummy
use it on the road purchase a cable to
connect your old laptop to your car
and you can have your very own on the
road computer
you can use it to listen to music or
shows or set
it in the back as an entertainment
system for your passengers or
kids if it's a small netbook it can also
be used as a gps navigation device
in case your smartphone screen is too
small for example
give it to a family member who's not
computer savvy
it'll drive them nuts
older people often have trouble grasping
the tech and if you have a grandma or
grandpa who calls you
every time they need some computer help
you can install a fresh windows on your
old one
set up family access and give it to them
this way you'll be able to help them
directly by accessing their settings
online from your device
restricting use or installation of
certain apps
and much more put its computing power to
a good use
you might have heard of seti at home a
scientific experiment at uc berkeley
dedicated to search for extraterrestrial
intelligence
since there's not much here you can join
it by creating an account there
and connecting your old computer to the
worldwide network helping the cause
when you install a free program your
computer will start downloading and
analyzing data from telescopes who knows
maybe it's your old laptop that will
help scientists
find et salvage the parts
if nothing else remains and your device
is broken for good
or bad don't just throw it away some
parts of it may still be functional
and they might come in handy if you're
into diy
you can use them in other devices and if
you're not
they still cost money on the market
check out the prices on ebay
you might be surprised by the way if you
got a desktop pc that's broken down
think about rigging your own one buying
new spare parts is often much cheaper
than purchasing a brand new machine
good luck with that